# Turtle-Crossing-Game
#### Video Demo: https://youtu.be/8zgoiJ8ydj0
#### Description:

This is a Turtle Crossing Game. It's a version of the class 2D game. I used Python and the Turtle Library to create it. The main player is made of a 2D Turtle in the shape of a turtle. I also made the cars out of Turtles. I used a square shape and extended the length to give the cars a 1:2 ratio. I imported the random module so that I could use different colors for the cars to provide some color and so that everything did not look so static.

This program uses Objectt Oriented Programming (OOP). 
There are 4 files:
  - main.py: contains the main functionality and imports classes from the other 3 files. This is where the game will run from.
  - car_manager.py: this file holds the class CarManager which will hold all the characteristics and functionality of the cars.
  - player.py: this file holds the class Player, which inherits from the Turtle class. This allows us to use the all the functionality from the turtle module in our Player class.
  - scoreboard.py: holds the Scoreboard class, which also inherits from Turtle and has all the same characteristics and functions. This controls the scoreboard, as well as Game Over.

The Player class inherits from Turtle. We use this to create the turtle character as well as make sure the pen is up so that we are not writing along the path and set the starting and heading for the turtle. We also define some absolute variables for the starting position, move distance, and where the turtle will finish. We use these in three methods. One method is to set our main key functionality. This is to use the "Up" arrow to move the turtle up, hopefully avoiding the cars in the path. We also define the function that moves the turtle to the start and when/if the turtle has made the finish line.

The Scoreboard class inherits from Turtle. This allows us again to use Turtle attributes that would otherwise be unavailable to us. We have our main definition that creates the scoreboard. We have three methods, one to update the scoreboard (either to reset it for a new game, or to increase the level). We have an increase level method that will increase the level by 1 if the turtle makes it to the other end of the board. Finally, we have a game over method to be used if the turtle comes in contact with a car.

The CarManager class has 4 methods. One is our initialization method that defines the car and its attributes. We use create an 3 absolute variables, the colors being a list of options we can use to channge the car colors. The move increment and starting move distance are set as well for us so we can adjust in one place if necessary. We have a create_car method that creates the cars and we use a random chance if statement to allow for some leeway. This was done to make sure that a pile of cars don't fly across the screen all the time. It makes the number of cars moving across more workable. It's still a random chance, but on the random chance between the roll of a die between 1 and 6 that the number is 1, a car moves across the board. This means there is a 1 in 6 chance a car comes across. This creates fair play. Otherwise, you get a giant pile of cars moving across the board all at once and the player cannot move. The rest of the code in here creates the car and colors. It also creates random starting positions along the y-axis, so that all the cars are not starting at the exact same spot on the screen. The move cars method moves the cars across the board. Finally, the level up method increases the car speed if the player makes it across the board.

The main.py file is where the actual gameplay funcitoning takes place. We import the classes from all the other files, as well as import time and turtle. We setup theh screen (I used a 600 x 600 pixel screen. We initialize the player, car_manager, and scoreboard so that they'll appear on our screen. We also initialize the key listening function so that we can use the "Up" key to move our turtle. Finally we set up a "while loop" to get the game going. While the game is on, we set a time.sleep as (0.1). This is so the cars move at a relatively normal pace (as well as our turtle), otherwise everything would fly across our screen at a very fast speed. We run screen.update() so that the screen keeps updating this or else it would just freeze after the first 0.1 second. We start creating and moving the cars. We use a for loop to detect collisoin with the cars. Since a turtle object is roughtly 20x20 pixels, if to objects are less than 20 pixels from each other, it's a good bet that they've collided. We use this as our if statement to detect a collision. We'll turn our game_is_on to False, turning off the "while loop" and then use the game_over() method from scoreboard. However, if the player makes it to the other side, we'll pull in the go_to_start() method from player, level_up() method from car_manager, and increase_level() method from scoreboard class to increase all of these and move the player back to start. This will show the level move up to the next level, the player will go back to start, and the cars will increase in speed. That's pretty much all there is to the game and theh code. The last ting to note is the screen.exitonclick(). This is in there so the screen just doesn't disappear when there is a collision. It forces the screen to wait for a mouse click on the screen for it to close the program.
